[MUSIC]
So in this lecture we'll talk
about embedded systems and
how they are related to IoT devices.
There's a lot of overlap.
Embedded systems, the term,
usually refers a lot to,
not just how the device is used, but
also how it's implemented, how it's built,
so there is a lot of overlap
between the two terms.
And IoT devices are typically
embedded systems also, so
we'll just define that and give you
an idea Idea of what embedded systems are.
It's good to know the term embedded system
because it is still commonly used, and
what we are building
are typically embedded systems.
We will talk about building
later on in the class.
They are actually usually
embedded systems.
So what are embedded systems?
Embedded systems are computer based
systems that don't look like computers.
That's my simple definition.
The complexity of a computer
is hidden from the user.
So if you have a computer,
desktop laptop something like that.
If you've ever used it,
which I know you have, there
are complexities to using a computer.
So say you want to install
some new software.
Right?
You install software.
Sometimes it's easy.
But sometimes there's a conflict,
like for instance video games.
I used to play video games on computers,
now I use only game machines, but
say I play a video game on a computer.
I put the video game in there and
install it, and
it has some conflict with the video card.
I need a new video card, right,
to play this new video game.
So, then I need to get new drivers for
my video card, so
there's this whole interaction.
The functions are not separated.
This is different than an IOT device.
An IOT device basically has one function.
We talked about this last module, right.
It has one function it's trying to do,
like the car.
It does the car things, right.
A camera does camera things, but
a general purpose computer It can do a lot
of things, and so there can be conflicts.
If I install software
to play a video game,
that might interfere with
the software to do something else.
So these relationships add to complexity.
So it makes it harder to use a standard
computer than to use, say an IOT device.
Now an embedded system, and
IOT devices are generally embedded,
they hide the complexity from the user.
So the picture we've got here this is
like some kind of a scale let's say,
and say it's an IOT scale,
so the user doesn't have to see
the complexity of what's going on inside.
The user just knows how to use it,
so it has a very simple interface.
And this is where the term
embedded comes from.
The complexity is embedded
inside the device,
the user doesn't have to
deal with the complexity.
So that's what an embedded system is,
how the term came about.
Now these embedded systems are much
more common in desktops and laptops
because there is computational ability
built into a lot of different devices.
Now one thing to notice about embedded
systems isn't necessarily different.
Not necessarily, but
can be different than IOT devices.
IOT devices are almost always
connected to the internet,
thus the term Internet of Things.
Embedded systems may or may not be.
Embedded systems may have
computational complexity in there, but
no network connection at all.
And so there are a lot of uses for
devices like that.
Things are moving from embedded to IOT
because because of the trends we talked
about in the last module, the fact that
internet connectivity is so ubiquitous and
it's pretty cheap to obtain.
So a lot of these devices that
used to be just embedded,
are now becoming networked and
so you'd call them IOT.
So what are embedded systems?
They're basically
everything that interacts,
all the internet of things
devices that we've talked about.
But plus or minus the internet part.
So take a digital camera,
that's what we have here.
Digital camera, a basic digital
camera might not be networked, right?
It might just be an embedded system
where you click, press a button,
you take a picture.
And the picture is stored locally, but it
might not be immediately networked, right?
So that would, you would call that
type of thing an embedded system.
Because the complexity is
embedded within the device.
So, a camera, an old camera, you know?
A mechanical camera,
has the same interface.
You press a button,
it takes a picture, right?
New digital camera, same interface,
press a button, takes a picture,
but there's a lot more complexity
to what's going on inside.
So, that's the term embedded, right?
The complexity is embedded
inside the device, and
the user doesn't have to see it.
The user can benefit from the complexity,
but using a very simple interface.
Now sometimes embedded systems don't
interact directly with the user, but
they interact with the user
through another device.
So what do I mean by this?
Let's take this, take this memory,
this thumb drive right.
Now a thumb drive, you've seen this
type of thumb drive, it stores data.
This type of thing does not interact
directly with the user, right.
A human doesn't have, doesn't connect this
up to their body or something, right, yet.
Right now they connect it to their
computer or something like that or
their phone or whatever it is.
And then they interact with it,
they can access the files on
it through another device.
So you would also call
this an embedded system,
even though it's not directly
interacting with the human.
And you see this in other
devices like a car.
The anti-lock braking system inside a car.
That's interacting with a human but
not directly, right?
The human presses the brake pedal, and the
brake pedal talks to the anti-lock braking
system, so the human interacts with the
car, and the car talks to it's sub-system.
One big property of embedded systems and
a difference in embedded system design
is that efficiency is really important.
So what that generally means is,
that It's not enough to get
the design to work, to do its task.
It has to do its task in an elegant,
let's say an elegant way, okay?
Either it has to do it fast, or
it has to do it with low power, or
it has to do it at low price, right?
So it's not enough just to get it to work.
And this is actually a big difference
between embedded system design and, say,
traditional software design.
So So, I teach programming too.
When we teach programming, generally, we
just teach how you get something to work.
Here, your goal is to get this code
to do what it's supposed to do.
Whatever I wanna do, sort this list of
items, or something like that, all right?
But, I'm not usually saying in that class,
it has to sort this list of items, and
it has to use the minimum
amount of memory possible.
I'm not saying it has to sort these items,
and it has to do it within one second.
Right?
I don't put these constraints on it.
I just say get it to work.
But with embedded system design,
you care a lot about the efficiency.
You can't just get it to work.
It's got to do it in an efficient manner.
So what that means, is that, so that
the reason for these constraints is that,
you know, most of these devices
are used in cost critical markets.
Or in life critical, right?
So if it's using medical or military,
people's lives depend on these devices.
And if using cost-critical device
that compute consumer electronics,
the cost is important.
But, either way there's some
constraints that are important to you.
Besides just getting the thing to work,
it's gotta work within
a tight set of constraints.
So, for instance,
say it's a consumer device like a phone.
So manufacturing costs, and design costs,
and time-to-market,
those things are primary.
Because you want it to be cheap, right?
You want to make money off the device,
so the cost has to be low.
Also, time-to-market,
because you have competitors.
And this competitor's coming out with
a new phone on this date, so you have to
come out on the same date with a phone
that's better than them, let's say.
So those things are primary.
But on the other hand,
if you're, this is the military.
This is going into a tank or weapon
system, and people's lives depend on it,
and it's life-critical.
Then, you care about performance and
power more.
So if you're in the military, you might
say, look, we'll pay millions of dollars
for this device as long as it works and it
can effectively do what we need it to do.
So cost becomes less important.
But power and performance really matter.
And same thing with medical, right?
You might be a lot more willing to
pay a lot of money for a device.
But it better work and
it better, you know,
maintain your heart the way
that it's supposed to.
Like a pace maker.
That thing better be, have high
reliability and it better, you know,
rate your,
control the pace of your heart properly.
So if that means costing
more money then so be it.
So in these imbedded devices,
there's always this tight set of
constraints that you're working under.
So it's not enough to get it to work,
you gotta get it to work within the set
of constraints that you're given.
So this is very different than
traditional software engineering,
where you just wanna get it to work and
get it to work some how.
And the assumption there is that
Moore's Law will save you eventually so
by Moore's Law, you may have heard of this
before but Moore's law just says let's
say that approximately says
that machines get faster and
more computationally efficient every year,
right?
They get more dense and faster.
Which by the way, Moore's law is
slowing down but still, this happens.
Machines improve.
So, software engineering often you'll just
either say, look, just get it to work and
if it's slow it's okay, because process or
performance is improving every year.
And so in the future it won't matter.
Right.
So that was the background assumption
to a lot of software engineering.
But a better systems,
you can't think like that.
You have to think loo,k
not only does it work.
It's gotta be working fast.
It's gotta be working low power and
all this.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]